# Abstract of the experiments #
The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, scitentists captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. For each record it is provided a 561-feature vector with time and frequency domain variables. The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. These time domain signals (prefix 't' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Similarly, the acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ) using another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz. Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, tBodyGyroJerkMag). Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, fBodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ, fBodyAccJerkMag, fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the 'f' to indicate frequency domain signals). These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern: '-XYZ' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions.

# Abstract of the final data set from the code #
The final data set result.txt from run_analysis.R is a independent 180 * 68 tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject. Each row identifies the subject who performed the activity for each window sample. Its range is from 1 to 30.

# Discriptions of the variables in the result.txt #
1) subject: the ID of subjects.
2) activity: the name of every activity, include laying, sitting, standing, walking, walking_downstairs and walking_upstairs.
3) column 3 to 68: the feature with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.
